Tasks:

Study your resource material and fill in the missing information. Answer questions in full sentences. Do not copy and paste from English sources. Avoid using machine translation. Your teacher will notice.


I. Describe the HTW, i.e. the Hochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft Dresden (University of Applied Sciences), in five sentences.

Dresden University of Applied Sciences was founded in 1992 and is the second largest post-secondary educational institution in Dresden, Saxony/Germany.
It is offering more than 40 degree programmes split in 8 faculties based on the needs of real local and international companies.
Often scientific collaboration with the Dresden University of Technology is emphasized and indeed results in a good reputation e.g. in the fields economics, electrical engineering, information technology/mathematics, (product) design and business administration both national and worldwide.
International connections organized by the faculties and some dedicated offices are a good opportunity for students interested in experience abroad as well as for companys and foreign Universities to not only send over their students but also collaborate with German Industry.
Although officials here claim to have state-of-the-art technology and laboratories rolled out widely, even basic things like IPv6, the internet connection or lockers (as there are almost none) lack attention and are relying on the services provided by e.g. Dresden Technical University or DFN e.V. instead of supporting them.

II. What courses of studies are offered at your faculty? Do they include Master’s degrees (postgraduate degrees)?

Our faculty offers mainly three branches, which are (General) Informatics, Business Informatics and media informatics in the form of Bachelor or Diplom degrees. There also is a combined Master course called Applied Information Technologies.

III. What are the entry requirements for studying at a university in Germany?

In general you need a high school degree, that is afterall the easiest way. Besides that there are additional ways to qualify by apprenticeship and work experience, mainly through a master (crafts-/tradesman) training. For foreign students you need to proof your language skills in German as courses in foreign languages are rare. And of course health care must be taken care of as well as visas.

IV. What types of school did you attend before you enrolled at the HTW?

I took my A-levels on a German secondary school and worked for quite some years already in the field I now want to have a higher degree for.

V. Do students in Saxony pay tuition fees? What do they need to pay when they enter university?

Students in Saxony do not pay tuition fees, although some, e.g. those at the University of Music and Theatre Leipzig have to do so.
When entering university, students need to pay term contribution. At Dresden University of Applied Sciences the term contribution is used for the students’ council, the student services and the universal transit pass.

VI. Explain what Bafög is and how students in Dresden generally finance their studies.

Bundesausbildungsförderungsgesetz is the law to the federal financial assistance in Germany. According to the law students get interest-free loans from the state, which they have to pay back entirely or partially, depending on the degree of their final thesis.
Students in Dresden have several ways to finance their studies: either their parents pay them money, they get BAföG or they go to work. Obviously, every student can use a mix of the mentioned ways, such as get some money from the parents and still go to work.  

VII. What facilities at the HTW do you find particularly useful?

The canteen in the Reichenbachstraße is very useful as there is always cheap and good food, and it’s not far away. The library is also useful, there are many books about our fields of study, where you can get additional information from.

VIII. Why did you choose the HTW Dresden rather than another university in Saxony or elsewhere?

IX. Name two types of student accommodation and list three advantages of each.

X. What types of assessment do your professors use to test students? Employ the following verbs in your answer: hand in or submit, sit, take, give, complete.

Resources:
“Campus and Career” (PowerPoint presentation, online)
Cullen, William and Doris Lehniger. B for Business. München. Max Hueber Verlag. 2000. Unit 1. (HTW library)
