I. Have you ever considered doing a semester or a year abroad? Which university would you pick and why? Select a university from the list of HTW partner institutions or find another university that might interest you. Collect information on the following points:

(It is also possible to make up a story!)

* courses and modules offered at equivalent faculties,

Winter semester:
  - Parallel and Distributed Programming
  - Elements of Artificial Intelligence
  - Object-Oriented programming

Summer semester:
  - Computer Image Processing
  - Mobile technologies and programming

* [entrance requirements](http://www.pk.edu.pl/images/forArticles/studia/en/zasady_rekrutacji_cudzoziemcow-022010_eng.doc) for students from Germany,
  - direct support by home university mandatory to make then count in for the degree
  - need for direct contact to supporters in Krakow via: [Dr. Agnieszka Krok](mailto:agakrok@poczta.fm) / [Erasmus Office / Dep. Faculty of Physics, Mathematics and Computer Science, Technical University of Cracow](http://www.fmi.pk.edu.pl/erasmus)
  - health care, but at least easier in EU
  - Visas not in EU
  - currency no problem, already some experience and organizational arrangements in place
  - transportation no big deal: campus located in inner city, city reachable by plane, train, local public transport and car easily

* financial assistance available for foreign students and
  - tuition fees as high as 2000,- złoty per semester for foreign students whereas Polish students for free, these costs might be coverd by Erasmus
  - Erasmus+ supports in exchange for reports and formal application
  - could also apply for additional support by other programs/scholarships to be found
  - possible to apply at Technical University Dresden for studying languages (Polish) for affortable price
  - credit cards widely accepted, many exchanges (Kontor) available, better rates than banks usually offer

* on-campus facilities offered to students.
  - the campus spread in inner city of Kraków, everything reachable by feet
  - good conditions for meals, even low prices for basic local food
  - 7 faculties, 22 courses of study
  - library of the Cracow University of Technology

II. On the basis of your findings, write a text of ca. 200 words to explain the reasons for your choice. Use your own words and write in full sentences. Count and indicate the number of words.

Yes, as I have been abroad before, mainly for work. Now I would like to also have experience in the academic field outside Germany if possible. For the environmental conditions as money, accommodation etc. I have no doubt I can organize myself, also thanks to help of people I already know personally. The desired location is Poland, may be Cracow or another bigger town like Wrosław or Warsaw. I already know a few words in Polish and there are classes in English language available as well. A main problem is still to be targeted: There is no cooperation between my faculty and theirs. I already asked Professor J. and was informed that if I apply early enough - which means right now for Summer 2016 - then there is a chance my faculty might enter into a contract with Politechnika. Thus I could take part in the Erasmus+ program through cooperation with the International Relations Office in Germany and the foreign exchange supporting Erasmus Offices abroad. So there are interesting subjects (e.g. Mobile technologies and programming, Elements of Artificial Intelligence) that also theoretically should be recognized by the Examination Office as sufficient to fit my study program. Even easier it might be to do the final thesis abroad. For this I first want to check if I can find a company. So for now I collected some information already and know how to go on and determine other prerequisites I might not have found out about yet.


Language tip:

Remember that a text is more than a sequence of sentences. You need to link your ideas properly so that the logical connection between them becomes clear. Please use the text books listed below to help you write your text.

Resources:

university homepages and other websites
booklets/brochures (library of Akademisches Auslandsamt at HTW)

own:
[Politechnika Kraków](www.fmi.pk.edu.pl)

<!--

Text books available in the library of HTW:

Strutt, Peter. Business Grammar and Usage. Market Leader.Harlow: Pearson, 2000.
Emmerson, Paul. Business Vocabulary Builder. Oxford: Macmillan, 2009. 142, 143.
Redman, Stuart. English Vocabulary in Use. Pre-intermediate & Intermediate. Cambridge: CUP, 1997. 70 – 77.
Redman, Stuart. English Vocabulary in Use. Pre-intermediate & Intermediate. Cambridge: CUP, 2008.
McCarthy, Michael and Felicity O’Dell. English Vocabulary in Use. Upper-intermediate & Advanced. Cambridge: CUP, 1994. 40 – 49. 
McCarthy, Michael and Felicity O’Dell. English Vocabulary in Use. Upper-intermediate. Cambridge: CUP, 2007.

The following links enable you to revise and practise how sentences are linked:
http://www.english-at-home.com/grammar/linking-words/
http://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/en/english-grammar/clause-phrase-and-sentence/sentence-structure
http://www.ihbristol.com/free-english-exercises/test/esol-smc-conjunctions-and-linkers

-->
