I. Have you ever considered doing a semester or a year abroad? Which university would you pick and why? Select a university from the list of HTW partner institutions or find another university that might interest you. Collect information on the following points:

(It is also possible to make up a story!)

* courses and modules offered at equivalent faculties,
Winter semester:
  - Parallel and Distributed Programming
  - Elements of Artificial Intelligence
  - Object-Oriented programming
Summer semester:
  - Computer Image Processing
  - Mobile technologies and programming

* entrance requirements for students from Germany,
  - direct support by your home university is mandatory
  - you need to organize any outer affairs beforehand - no unsolveable problem for EU citizens
  - also need for direct contact to the supporters in Krakow via contact: [Dr. Agnieszka Krok](mailto:agakrok@poczta.fm) / [Erasmus Office / Dep. Faculty of Physics, Mathematics and Computer Science, Technical University of Cracow](http://www.fmi.pk.edu.pl/erasmus)
  - health care is an issue for me, but at least it is easier as an EU citizen
  - Visas I do not need as EU citizen as well
  - currency is not a major problem, also I already have experience and organizational arrangements in place
  - transportation is no big issue as the campus is located in the inner city and the city as well is reachable by plane, train, local public transport and car easily.

* financial assistance available for foreign students and
  - there are tuition fees as high as 2000,- złoty per semester for foreign students whereas Polish students can go for the first degree for free, these costs might be coverd by Erasmus
  - Erasmus+ supports also with money for travel and accomodation in exchange for reports and formal application
  - I could also apply for additional support by other programs/scholarships
  - when applying at technical university for studying languages I can also have Polish courses for an affortable price
  - credit cards are widely accepted and many exchanges (Kontor) are available for visitors as well with better rates than banks usually offer

* on-campus facilities offered to students.
  - the campus is spread over the inner city of Kraków, everything reachable by feet
  - they offer good conditions for meals and even the prices for basic local food in low-priced restaurants (they are called "milk bars" and derive from socialist tradition) are fair
  - 
  - 

II. On the basis of your findings, write a text of ca. 200 words to explain the reasons for your choice. Use your own words and write in full sentences. Count and indicate the number of words.

(ca. 200 words also means to me, that the text is not allowed to be much longers; so I needed to concentrate on just few of the before mentioned facts in prosa)

Yes, as I have been abroad before for work. Now I would like to also have experience in the academic field outside Germany and connect these with practical work. For the environmental conditions as money, accomodation etc. I have no doubt I can organize myself with the help of some people I already know personally. The desired location is Kraków/Poland with its University Politechnika Krakowska. I already know few words in Polish language but there are classes in English language as well.
A small problem is still to be targeted: There is no coorporation between my faculty and theirs. But they already have coorporation with other faculties in our University. This might help a bit at least. I already asked Professor Jay from my faculty and was informed that if I apply early enough - wich means right now for Summer 2016 - then there is a chance they might enter into a contract with Politechnika, even for a short term. Thus I could take part in the Erasmus+ program through cooperation with the International Relations Office in Germany and the foreign exchange supporting Erasmus Offices abroad. This hopefully solves the major problems in coordinating the differences for the academic prerequisits of the two universities.
So there are interesting subjects in the list of findings above that also theoretically could be recognized (as far as I can estimate) by my faculty and the examiation office as sufficient to fulfill the modules for my study program. But I also need to concentrate on the question when I shall go there and how that is possible to organize in time and that long in advance. Still not an easy task to get everything in a matching order. Easier it might be to have the final theses done abroad. For this I first want to check if I can find a company to support something meaninful.
So for now I collected some information already and next need to apply at comanies as well as the International Relations Office at my University to determine other needs I might not have found on my own.


Language tip:

Remember that a text is more than a sequence of sentences. You need to link your ideas properly so that the logical connection between them becomes clear. Please use the text books listed below to help you write your text.

Resources:

university homepages and other websites
booklets/brochures (library of Akademisches Auslandsamt at HTW)

own:
[Politechnika Kraków](www.fmi.pk.edu.pl)

<!--

Text books available in the library of HTW:

Strutt, Peter. Business Grammar and Usage. Market Leader.Harlow: Pearson, 2000.
Emmerson, Paul. Business Vocabulary Builder. Oxford: Macmillan, 2009. 142, 143.
Redman, Stuart. English Vocabulary in Use. Pre-intermediate & Intermediate. Cambridge: CUP, 1997. 70 – 77.
Redman, Stuart. English Vocabulary in Use. Pre-intermediate & Intermediate. Cambridge: CUP, 2008.
McCarthy, Michael and Felicity O’Dell. English Vocabulary in Use. Upper-intermediate & Advanced. Cambridge: CUP, 1994. 40 – 49. 
McCarthy, Michael and Felicity O’Dell. English Vocabulary in Use. Upper-intermediate. Cambridge: CUP, 2007.

The following links enable you to revise and practise how sentences are linked:
http://www.english-at-home.com/grammar/linking-words/
http://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/en/english-grammar/clause-phrase-and-sentence/sentence-structure
http://www.ihbristol.com/free-english-exercises/test/esol-smc-conjunctions-and-linkers

-->
