I. Fill in the missing English or German equivalents. Use the resources indicated below:

German  | English
:------|:-----
Kleine und mittelständische Unternehmen (KMU) | Small/Medium size enterprises
Großunternehmen | Large-scale enterprises
Geschäftsführer | Chief Executive Officer (AE) / Managing Director (BE)
Vorstand | board
Vorstandvorsitzende(r)  | chairman
Abteilung  | Department or Division
Buchhaltung | accounting
Einkauf | purchasing department
~ Prokurist | Company Secretary
Forschung und Entwicklung  | Research and Development (R&D)
Personal	|	personnel
Informationstechnologie	|	Information Technology (IT)
Einzelunternehmer	| Soletrader
Einzelhändler	| retailer
Partnerschaft	|	Partnership
GmbH ~	|	Private Limited Company (ltd - BE)
AG	|	Public Limited Company (plc - BE)

II. Find one synonym for the underlined phrase in each sentence. Write the synonyms in the spaces provided.

 #      | original	         |	synonym
:-----: | :----------------- | :-------
a       | is composed of	   |	consists of	
b       | deals with         |  have to do with
c       | report to	         |	be directly subordinated
d       | be responsible for |	have to take care of

III. Explain the following words. Use a mono-lingual dictionary. Form nouns.

 Verb           | Definition in Business Context               | Noun(s)
:-------------- | :------------------------------------------- | :------
cancel, to      | to terminate a contract	                     |cancellation
compete, to     | to have a relative position to rivals        |competition
deliver, to     | distribute supplies / products               | delivery
dismiss, to     | to cancel a work contract                    | dismissal
implement, to   | putting sth. in effect                       | implementation 
investigate, to |  careful examination of facts                | investigation
maintain, to    | care or upkeep (as of machinery or property) | maintenance
operate, to     | to work, perform, or function                | operation
recruit, to     | to select and hire somebody                  | recruitment
select, to      | choose somebody (by attributes)              | selection

IV. List six verbs which describe how a company comes into being, develops and dies.

1. plan, to
2. found, to
3. establish, to
4. run, to
5. advance, to
6. liquidate, to

resource: [monolongual dictionary](http://dictionary.reference.com)
